Methodology
using qgis? Visualisation on a geographical map

How was life on ship and on land?
by looking at the dataset

The mobility of climbing the corporate ladder in voc
- Wage Rate of the workers on ships and on land: was it more well-paid on ship?
- What the VOC deems the most important in the workforce?
- E.g. clergymen got paid a lot: why was religious impact valued so much? (linking to colonisation)
- What did the clergymen do (how?) (look for their land of originality -> map the ranks, which rank came from which location)
- based on the wages and location they landed it to
- Visualise wage level in routes in different colours 
- find papers to make the linkage in addition to the wage level
- also which kind of clergymen
- who has access to the positions

- how was care and mental wellbeing considered
- Care and assistant of the voc
- how many clergymen were there, on which route were they present

- Research Question: (1st attempt - abolished)
- how was colonial and religious factors related to the wage level of workers in the VOC 
- how did colonial and ideological factors impact how religious positions were valued more than other jobs
- Can we see in which voyages they were most present?

Focus on mobility?
- maybe two posts? i.e. clergymen and surgeons
- focus on one category? e.g. craftsmen (what were in this category)
draws connection with wage, does it grow, based on how much voc paid them -> connect to how their jobs were perceived
- linking back to the care topic -> do they really care about their crew members?
- Why was the musician on board, who did they perform for?
- were there scholars discussing it already? What cultural bias they might have?
- Why were these catergories selected? The catergory "other"

Mobility of the workers
- where were the clergymen/ musicians going to? On which routes were they present?

- browse for papers relating to this topic and also pay attention to who wrote/ publish them
- Acknowledging the potential bias and that we are seeing information from positionalities that might give bias (people from the 19th century)

- In some sources: the craftsmen category contains totally different jobs
- Also a DH problem of how the database classify jobs and catergories

Research Question (for now?)
1. How did the VOC value different job categories(based on the catergory "other" in this dataset)? Based on the wage level and employment data available, how can we observe which jobs the database creators perceive as most important/ relevant based on how they created this dataset, comparing to the VOC?

- Focus on the 18th century
- Develope sub-questions on the database creators




